Remove WatRegistry from architecture (#93)
chronicleprotocol/documentation: docs/Intro/dive/onchain.md

sidebar_position: 1
description: Onchain components of Chronicle Protocol Architecture.
keywords: [quorum, WatRegistry, ValidatorRegistry]
---

# Onchain Components

    - **List of Validators**: This refers to the entities or individuals who are authorized to participate in the MultiSig validation process for a particular data model. MultiSig validation typically requires multiple parties to sign off on a transaction or data update before it is considered valid. The list of validators outlines who these authorized parties are.
    - **Quorum**: This represents the minimum number of validations or "feeds" required for a MultiSig validation to be considered valid for a specific data model. For example, if the quorum for a particular data model is set to 11, it means that exactly 11 out of the total number of validators listed must sign off on the transaction or data update for it to be accepted.

>     - **ConfigRegistry**: This is a Go-based Oracle client that stores the configurations required for validators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **ConfigRegistry**: Is part of a Data Model Delivery System that allows Validators to quickly react to changing market conditions that affect the price calculations - e.g. liquidity shifts between origins.
```

>     - **ValidatorRegistry** plays a crucial role within the **Chronicle Protocol** by maintaining a comprehensive list of all Validators that are recognized as valid participants in the network/protocol. Validators, in this context, are trusted entities within the network that collaborate through a *peer-to-peer* (p2p) network to supply new oracle data.

Reviewer 2: True, but afaik @MDobak wants to integrate at some point (?).

>     - **ValidatorRegistry** plays a crucial role within the **Chronicle Protocol** by maintaining a comprehensive list of all Validators that are recognized as valid participants in the network/protocol. Validators, in this context, are trusted entities within the network that collaborate through a *peer-to-peer* (p2p) network to supply new oracle data.

Author: Currently it is part of the current architecture I received from Alex

>     - An onchain enforced consensus mechanism ensures that data provided by these Validators is validated by a specific number, known as the `bar` of Validators. As a singleton contract deployed on the Ethereum blockchain, the **ValidatorRegistry** serves as a centralized source of truth regarding the identities of valid Validators within the Chronicle Protocol. Validators regularly query this registry to determine their status within the network. Additionally, the registry provides functionalities such as filtering p2p connections based on the identities of Validators and translating validator addresses to/from their corresponding 1-byte identifier.

Reviewer: I don;t think it's a singleton... @pmerkleplant ?

Reviewer 2: It is a singleton, the contract exists exactly once only on Ethereum.

>     By leveraging the **ValidatorRegistry**, Chronicle Protocol ensures that only authenticated and authorized Validators participate in the network activities, thereby enhancing the security and integrity of the oracle data provided by the protocol.

Reviewer: I am not sure about this.

---
 # On-Chain Components

    - **List of Validators**: This refers to the entities or individuals who are authorized to participate in the MultiSig validation process for a particular data model. MultiSig validation typically requires multiple parties to sign off on a transaction or data update before it is considered valid. The list of validators outlines who these authorized parties are.
    - **Quorum**: This represents the minimum number of validations or "feeds" required for a MultiSig validation to be considered valid for a specific data model. For example, if the quorum for a particular data model is set to 11, it means that exactly 11 out of the total number of validators listed must sign off on the transaction or data update for it to be accepted.
    

>      - Chronicle Protocol facilitates the dynamic updating of configurations for validators using the Chronicles Go-based Oracle client. **ConfigRegistry** assigns a unique URL to each individual validator. This unique URL mechanism allows for the management of distinct configurations for every validator. In essence, the **ConfigRegistry** serves as a central repository where configuration information for each validator is stored and can be updated as needed. By maintaining this registry, Chronicle Protocol ensures that each validator can have its own specific configuration settings tailored to its requirements, enhancing flexibility and customization within the protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - Chronicle Protocol facilitates the dynamic updating of configurations for validators using Chronicle's Go-based Oracle client. **ConfigRegistry** allows for the management of distinct configurations for every validator. In essence, the **ConfigRegistry** serves as a central repository where configuration information for each validator is stored and can be updated as needed. By maintaining this registry, Chronicle Protocol ensures that each validator can have its own specific configuration settings tailored to its requirements, enhancing flexibility and customization within the protocol.
```

Reviewer: I am not sure that having different configs for different validators is a good thing, but it will be useful when we have a lot of validators and some will be dedicated to specific oracles.
